Problem Solving using Artificial Intelligence
---------------------------------------------


Q1 - Uninformed Search
	You are given two jugs, a 4-gallon one and a 3-gallon one. Neither has any 
	measuring markers on it. There is a tap that can be used to fill the jugs 
	with water. The goal is to get exactly 2 gallons of water into the 4-gallon 
	jug. Formulate this as a state space search problem and use the following 
	3 uninformed search strategies – Breadth first, depth first and iterative 
	deepening to find a solution. For each strategy used generate statistics 
	of the time taken to obtain the solution as well as the memory used. Based 
	on your statistics summarize what is the best strategy and why.

Q2 - Informed Search
	The sliding-tile puzzle consists of three black tiles, three white tiles, 
	and an empty space. The spaces are arranged in a single row and numbered 
	1,2,3,. . . ,7. Initially the black pieces occupy spaces 1,2 and 3 while 
	the whites occupy 5,6,7. Space 4 is empty. The puzzle has two legal moves 
	with associated costs: A tile may move into an adjacent empty space. This 
	has a cost of 1. A tile may hop over one or two other tiles into an empty 
	space. This has a cost equal to the number of tiles jumped over. The goal 
	is to have all the white tiles to the left of all the black tiles. The 
	position of the empty space is not important.
	
	Write a A* program to solve this puzzle. Experiment with two different 
	kinds of admissible heuristics. For each heuristic used generate statistics 
	of the time taken to obtain the solution as well as the nodes expanded. 
	Based on your statistics summarize what is the best heuristic and why.

Q3 - 2-Person Games
	Write a Minimax procedure with alpha-beta pruning to play the tic-tac-toe 
	game. Generate statistics of time used and nodes generated by the Minimax 
	procedure with and without Alpha-Beta pruning. Write a critical analysis.

Q4 - CSP
	A Golomb Ruler of order M and length L consists of M marks palaced at unit 
	intervals along the ruler such that the differences in spacing between every 
	pair of marks are all distinct. For example the four marks placed at 0, 1, 4 
	and 6 constitutes a Golomb ruler of order 4 and length 6.

	Formulate and implement a CSP solution to verify whether or not a Golomb ruler 
	of a fixed length L for M marks exists. Generate statistics on the number of 
	consistency checks performed for CSP solution with plain Backtracking (BT), 
	BT+MRV, BT+MRV+Forward Checking(FC), BT+MRV+Constraint Propagation. Analyze 
	the impact of these 4 heuristics on scalability of the problem size, i.e., 
	how large a L are you able to handle.
